one of the greatest hacks for being an
ambitious hard driving entrepreneur and
that's why it's Kylie Jenner is nothing
short of burlesque Harley Finkelstein
he's the president of Shopify one of the
largest e-commerce platforms worth over
60 billion dollars he's helped scale
brands worldwide and he's now on a
mission to help you start your own
business about a month into college I
got a call from my mom and said Dad's
been arrested and he's going to jail
college is over and I was shifted into
this survival mode I had no choice and
it's a very powerful driver I met Toby
around that time the initial idea had
lots of other competitors this was not
this massive novel thing we just did it
better and that was how shot that was
born there's a perception that
entrepreneurship is very expensive
that's not true it's less than a couple
Starbucks coffees to go start a business
today there's so far too many people
that work at a job they absolutely hate
because they think they have no choice
no one had this massive 80-page business
plan and then got started that's not how
businesses are created they're created
based on this nugget of an idea and
they're explored and you get curious
about you try this other stuff and
that's how you build companies that
changed the world I wake up every
morning encouraging more
entrepreneurship creating tools that
help entrepreneurs start scale and build
faster that drives me to keep building
and keep growing the stores that we are
most proud of are the Homegrown success
stories that grew to be multi-billion
dollar businesses if I give you three
million dollars who would you invest it
in I would definitely put one of those
millions of dollars into the hands of a
Creator who's the second one I think
would be the third one would be someone
oh really yeah those are the types of
people that I would back
would you like to go for dinner with me
and my guests here on the diver CEO we
are holding dinner parties all around
the world over the coming months and our
subscribers on this YouTube channel are
invited we're inviting 20 subscribers to
every dinner so if you'd like to come
for dinner with me and my guests here on
the diver CEO I have a favor to ask you
all you've got to do is hit the
Subscribe button and I hope to see you
at dinner somewhere around the world
very soon
[Music]
Polly
in your own words
who are you what do you do and what
mission are you on
I've always self-identified as an
entrepreneur full stop
um that's kind of the tool that I use to
solve every problem in my life and to
have fun is always through the lens of
Entrepreneurship
what do I do
um
I mean I think technically I'm the
president of Shopify but I view my role
as being the chief Storyteller how can I
get the world to know that Shopify is
the entrepreneurship company and invite
more people to participate in that the
mission that I'm on this is going to
sound really repetitive now but is I
want more people to try their hand at
this thing that that I call business
creation or entrepreneurship and I don't
think right now most people consider
entrepreneurship as a thing that they
can do to self-actualize
why does it matter if they if more
people become entrepreneurs
I think the world is far more colorful
and I think humans are far more
interesting when they
commercialize their hobby for example I
think there's still far too many people
that work at a job they absolutely hate
in fact I would say that they loathe
because they think they have no choice
and that was the case for a long time
you go back 40 years 50 years not
everyone could be an entrepreneur
that is different and I'm not saying
that everyone that has a great hobby
should commercialize it hobby some
Hobbies should stay Hobbies but there
are a ton of people who work at a job
they they despise they go home at night
they go to the garage or their workshop
or their kitchen table
and they Tinker on cool stuff but they
don't share that with the world
if they did that
consumers would get really better stuff
that they can purchase and they can use
but those particular people behind those
businesses
can find their life's work and this
concept of life's work is not something
that my parents my grandparents my
great-grandparents even had in their
lexicon but I think the idea of finding
your life's work I think you have done
that Steve and I hope that I've done
that too
that is a life-changing moment there's
there's going to be potentially millions
of people listening to this now that
resonate with what you're saying they
are in situations that are not serving
them on some kind of psychological
fulfillment level
um
why aren't those people in your view
pursuing what their life work is I'm
trying to like create some I guess some
Nuance or trying to step into their
mindset so that they feel understood
what is the the
the Gap the Grand Canyon that they need
to cross in their mind to get to that
other side which is their life's work
why don't people do it
I think a big part of it is perception I
think a lot of people
perceive entrepreneurship as something
that's Out Of Reach for usually one of
two reasons the first reason is is
financial
they have a family member or a friend or
they've heard an anecdote of someone who
started a business that was not
successful and ultimately it cost them
their entire life they couldn't you know
they lost their house they couldn't put
food on their table and so there's a
perception that entrepreneurship is very
expensive if you don't have money you
cannot start and actually I would say
that for vast majority of the time that
entrepreneurship or business has been
available in the world which is you know
entrepreneurship business is about as
old as currency so thousands and
thousands of years
the main ingredient in starting a
business was capital and if you didn't
have Capital you couldn't start
and I think that's changed and we can
get back to that in a second the second
part is
the understanding or the experience or
the know-how to begin and I think that
also has changed I think now you don't
have to go to business school you don't
have to you know have have grown up in a
in a home with entrepreneurs to start a
business I think that anyone can start
and so on both those things I think the
cost of failure is as close to zeros has
ever been right now like as we sit here
and the second part is I think that if
you try something that doesn't work you
can try it again and that may be
you know your gym shark your aloe yoga
you're James purse
from a psychological perspective some
people you know they often say well you
know it requires a lot of self-belief
they talk about self-belief and
confidence as being this kind of macro
force that drives people to to start and
I was sat here the other day with an
entrepreneur who's built multiple
companies and been very very successful
and he was saying to me he said
something to me like when the
it's actually pain the pain of his
current situation which drove him to
take the leap as it relates to people's
like psychology and their self-belief
and their self-confidence
um when you're trying to get people to
become entrepreneurs what can we do
there to get them to take the leap is
there anything that can be done I mean
first of all I think that there's two
types of catalysts for starting a
business one is passion and the other is
disparity or being desperate and
actually I think entrepreneurs by
necessity are a big part of the the
greatest companies ever been created the
reason I became an entrepreneur I mean I
I told you that as a kid but but when I
really became an entrepreneur it was
because I had no choice
and it's a very powerful driver it
wasn't about my self-confidence or my
Swagger whether or not I thought I could
I had no choice in terms of you know you
had Richard Branson on he has this
famous line scroo just do it
I think that plays in sort of the
passion side of things not necessarily
in the disparity kind of things I didn't
say screw just do it I was like I have
no choice what am I gonna do right now
either have to like
move back home to South Florida
and live at home with my mom and my mom
and sister's dad wasn't around or
I can actually figure this out on my own
and I can pay for school and I can help
support my family and so it wasn't about
scroo just do it that like it wasn't
about self-confidence it was
here's a way for me to actually survive
and that thing that matters the role of
passion in entrepreneurship you know
you'll you'll know that a lot of
entrepreneurs they
are so
um
in love with the idea of being rich and
successful that they'll kind of try and
reverse engineer a passion into this
their Journey being rich and successful
so they'll sit down and say what do I
think is going to make me Rich and
successful this happens all the time you
know entrepreneurs will come up to me
and say I've got three ideas and they'll
name three random things I'm gonna start
a hair care business I might do a coffee
company or I might do crypto for example
and you look at that and go like it's
gonna get so difficult for you in year
one you're gonna quit all of these
things what role do you think passion
plays an eventual success I think you
have to actually like the thing you're
doing to do it over a long period of
time my my first when I was 13 years old
um I grew up in Montreal I'm Jewish I
went to a lot of bar in bar mitzvahs
that thing you do and you know 13 year
old kids uh 12 years old if you're a
girl 13 years old if you're a boy you go
to these Bar Mitzvah parties and I
remember seeing the DJs at these parties
on stage playing I don't know cheesy
music very cheesy music but I was just
enthralled with them I thought they were
the coolest people in the world because
in a matter of minutes they would take a
group of 300 sleepy people eating rubber
chicken dinner and like a minute later a
couple days later they'd be doing the
conga lion and it looked like magic to
me and I really thought that would be
super cool for me to partake in and so
there was a passion for me to I want to
be a DJ
turned out
nobody would hire me because I wasn't
really a DJ I didn't know how to DJ and
I looked like I was eight years old I
mean I've always been a little bit short
I'm so short but I looked I was really
sure when I was 13. and so there was no
way anyone would hire me and I decided I
would just start my own DJ company and
hire myself
so there's some passion to it when I was
17 years old and I moved from we moved
to South Florida when I was around that
time moved back to Montreal when I was
17 to go to McGill University my dad was
no longer around we can get into that if
you want to but I at that point it
wasn't like I'm gonna go back to DJing
it was okay things are really bad right
now like dad's not around I have too
much younger sisters mom needs help what
am I gonna do and I started selling
T-shirts to universities across Canada
I had very little passion towards
t-shirts I like wearing t-shirts as we
talked about earlier like black t-shirts
are something that I like but I was not
a passionate t-shirt entrepreneur
manufacturer I was passionate about
survival I was passionate about
supporting my mom and my sisters and so
I don't think that t-shirt business was
going to be something that I would I was
going to be doing the rest of my life
that was not my life's work
fast forward until today leading Shopify
with with our team I'm very passionate
with shopify's Mission this idea that
more people can be entrepreneurs because
of the work we do at Shopify I can do
this the rest of my life if if the board
will have me
um so I think there's a time and a place
for passion in these things but I don't
think it's the only reason to start
you referenced a few things there that I
thought were quite interesting and that
made my mind wander onto um
adjacent subject matter one of those is
that you're talking there about what's
driving us at different moments in our
life one of the um conversations I had
on this podcast with Barbara Cochrane
the shark over here in the US uh she
said to me that her best investments she
makes in entrepreneurs they tend to have
some kind of underlying trauma
and and that ends up being
fuel in their engine so when things get
really really hard they're driven and in
such an obsessive way and I remember
then listening and I've always thought
this I've always thought that insecurity
and shame and these kinds of things are
unbelievably
unappreciated drivers and people For
Better or For Worse it comes with a
downside
um
do you think entrepreneurs should and
Founders should go to therapy
uh I think some should I think
entrepreneurs and Founders need to be
self-aware I think that that's the first
thing once they're self-aware and they
understand hey there are some things
that going on in my mind in my
personality in my whatever my my being I
don't know how to describe it that I
need to work on I think therapy is a
hack to get there faster you can do it
on your own and some people do some
people do it through books and they did
through meditation and they go do you
know
Ayahuasca in a in a desert somewhere but
I think if you have
if you have the means to go to therapy
how could you not there is someone whose
job it is to make you better now I think
a lot of people make a mistake where
they go to see one therapists they're
like this doesn't work for me yeah and
they're like therapy doesn't work no
that therapist didn't work if you date
somebody and the relation doesn't work
doesn't mean you're never gonna date
again it means I was the wrong person
for you and so one thing I think about
is whether it's coaching or it's mentors
or it's something like a therapist or a
psychologist in your life or
psychiatrist
you need to find the right fit but if
you have the means to do so it just it's
the greatest hack ever to just know more
to realize more is it going to be
painful unequivocally the joke that I
have with with my therapist is I know
it's been a good session if I feel worse
after than when I did coming in because
as I come into these sessions and I got
Swagger and I just had a great day and
things are going oh things are going my
way then an hour later I leave and I'm
like oh my God I'm still like I'm still
such a work in progress you know one but
but that's I think what we're all
choosing here there's this great my
favorite poem or speech ever is this
Teddy Roosevelt speech the man in the
arena did you know it no
I'm gonna butcher it but it's effective
like it is not the critic that counts
but the the man or the woman or the
human in the arena that matters and the
reason I love that speech so much is
because if you don't want any of the
stuff you like you can you can be a
Critic you can be a spectator
but if you're an entrepreneur or you're
you're a doer or a builder or someone
that deeply wants to do cool [__] and
build something for yourself for your
family for the world you got to be in
the arena and in the arena there's a lot
of fighting and there's a it's tough but
I think it's a better way to live that's
the reason why the best articulation of
all this is is this term
entrepreneurship because
entrepreneurship is fundamentally you
have a problem and you were solving in a
way that uses the least amount of
resources but has the highest amount of
output and that's the reason why I love
entrepreneurship I love we have millions
of stores on Shopify some of them
started because they were passionate
about commercializing their their craft
in some cases they started because they
had no choice but the end result is they
built something that is of value and
they've shared it with everybody else
and so that's what I signed up for but
if I'm going to check that box this is
the life I'm going to be the man in the
arena
I need to acknowledge there's going to
be critics who are going to try to tear
me down there's going to be internal
critics that are going to try to mess
that up
and I'm still going to pursue I'm still
going to move forward in progress
um and I think therapy helps with that
what's your relationship like with
failure we talked a little bit about the
idea of failure at the start of this
conversation why people don't take the
leap from that you know a miserable
certain situation into an uncertain
situation that might make give them a
better life but what's your relationship
been like with failure because everybody
knows to be a successful entrepreneur to
build great products you have to fail
fast
um but if you're struggling with you
know enoughness
then it seems like that might limit your
ability to want to fail fast you know it
it is certain that the more
the more successes you have on your belt
the easier it is to fail because you
feel like if you've had you know nine
out of ten things have been successful
and that tenth is not it doesn't mean
you are a failure so one thing is I
think separating like you being a
failure versus the project or the the
particular thing being a failure is very
very different which is hot which is
very hard
um Toby uh who you know is found or
Shopify and person I spend most of my
time with
um building this coming over the last 13
or 14 years he has this great line which
is that failure is the discovery of
something that that didn't work
when I think when you use that lens that
failure is the Discovery or something
that didn't work which he taught me that
made failure totally different so now
it's no longer about failing it's like
what did I actually get from that that's
going to make it better the next time
and
Shopify puts out a lot of products we
had our uh we had something called
Shopify editions which happened in
February where we twice a year we
basically do almost like the fashion
industry we do like our spring
collection and our winter collection so
we do these things called editions where
we put out all of the products and
features we built over the last six
months we do about a hundred of them
each time which is a lot
not every one of them is going to be a
huge success
but some of those will be a complete
game changer for our business but also
in the lives of the people that use our
product and I think we have a courage
about that
I'm trying to have more of a courage
about that myself if I take on new
responsibilities or new roles
am I going to be a failure and and the
best example I can give you is for about
five years or so I was shoplife's Chief
Operating Officer and
I don't think I was ever the most
operationally minded person meaning I
didn't necessarily live in the details I
didn't necessarily live in spreadsheets
but when Toby and the board asked me to
be the Chief Operating Officer it was a
huge
it was a huge honor I mean shot play is
such a great company wow like that's
what they're asking me and I worked
really really hard to be the best
version of a chief operating officer
and it was only three years ago or so
that at some point it was obvious to me
that like that's not really my skill set
but I didn't want to say anything about
that because I really believe that like
I can figure it out I think I did a good
job but maybe not the best job ever
and once I began to talk about hey this
is probably not the right role for me
where I can be the best in the world at
there's this other role which
traditionally is called the president
role which is very external facing
maybe I can beat the best of world at
that thing I'm not there yet but like
that is a journey I can get on and maybe
I don't have to be well-rounded maybe I
can actually be spiky and instead of
actually trying to be a well-rounded
leader maybe I can focus on sharpening
that point and sharpening that point
over and over again and that's when you
know I had a conversation with with Toby
and and and and and the team said look
there is this other role and we need to
bring someone in whose life's work it
would be to be a great Chief Operating
Officer I mean we have that now
but man Steve I did not want to admit
that I was not the right CEO for Shopify
because ego right total and and ego and
insecurity one I'm admitting failure the
other one is I like this role it's very
important role but it was only when I
sort of began to be honest about
is this the right role for me that I
began to say hey there's this other
thing and I can tell you I am not a
little bit happier now in my current
role and not not and and and more like
it is so much more meaningful for me to
have this role today because I feel like
this is really where Shopify will
benefit the most from what is my
superpower which is really storytelling
and
the company's better I like it better
the currency was so much better than I
was ever
everything kind of came came about but
it took it probably took too long
I I think that story is an incredibly
powerful one because they're I come
across people all the time within my own
companies but also just people that will
send me messages who are currently in a
role
um maybe they're being offered a
promotion into another role and because
it's a bigger role with a bigger salary
they are inclined to take it but there's
that missing pause of sort of
self-awareness where you've got your ego
pulling you because I'm gonna have you
know higher status in this company I'm
gonna get more pay people are going to
think I'm cooler and more impressive but
then the most important long-term
questions of course like am I good at
this and do I would I really love my
life more you see that a lot don't you
when someone gets promoted to a
management position and suddenly the
group of friends they have are now the
people that they have to manage that
point of self-awareness is so incredible
I I reflect on a guy called Pete
who I offered a promotion to one day
and he was like
no I'm not ready
this must have been like what what
I'm offering you more money the chance
to become a director in the business and
he'd been with the business for four
years at that point
um he stayed for two years after I even
left he was just like I'm not quite
ready yet he goes I've still got a lot
left to learn a lot of skills
um I like really like my current job
yeah
I like Pete Pete is the happiest guy I
know he has his [__] together way more
than I do not is he happy but he also he
he's great he's got great self-awareness
you know one change that we recently
made at Shopify was we realized that a
lot of people as they were going through
the IC track or individual contributor
track eventually just leads to a manager
track and so the upward mobility of your
career ended up being you actually at
some point if you're really good stop
doing the thing you're really good at
and so very recently we put out uh sort
of a new operating model for our team
for organization and I think I think
it's been I think it got leaked to the
Press so it's this is all public
information but
if you want to be an incredible senior
independent contributor because in your
IC we will pay you the same rate that we
would pay a senior manager and that if
you actually like your craft whether
you're a developer or a marketer or a
salesperson or you're you're you're
doing
um data analysis or a data scientist if
you love your craft and I know some
people who love their craft they've been
doing it for 30 years you do not
necessarily need to leave that craft to
be a manager to get some sort of
additional seniority or additional
compensation and dispelling some of that
frankly like the [__] around the
only way to be successful is to be a
manager is to lead people not everyone
needs to lead people some people should
be a coach other people should just
continue becoming like the greatest
player on the field ever and making that
okay I think is going to make shop play
a much better company but one thing you
need to talk about that you sort of
raise it that that that got me thinking
about like the self-identity thing is
that
I think a lot of times for this guy Pete
Pete may really just be ambitious about
perfecting his craft and his skill set
and he doesn't necessarily believe he's
ready yet to leave that because there's
still work to be done I love that and I
think in most companies what you end up
with is the pizza the world when they
say we don't they don't want a promotion
they often get to get taken out
completely well Pete's not ambitious
Pete's not going to be someone who's
going to be you know a real contributor
longer term here maybe he's lazy Pete's
not lazy he has a deep understanding I
don't know Pete is it's going to be
hilarious yeah um I do know Pete but but
Pete is obviously a clear understanding
of hey there's this thing there's this
spiky object Don't Make Me a River Stone
I don't want to be well-rounded I want
to be so good at this and by the way if
I do this the company is going to get
better I'm going to be happier our
customers are going to be happier it all
kind of works out I think most companies
turn their employees ultimately into
River Stones they say you got to be
better here better there and I think
instead
this sort of t-shaped you've heard this
sort of t-shaped model of skill set I
think the t-shaped is much better where
you can go broad on a lot of different
things but you go deep on one and then
one thing for me is the storytelling
aspect of my job is making sure
investors the public are Merchants media
everyone in the world knows what Shopify
is up to and understands what our
Ambitions are and so I'm trying to get
really deep on the storytelling but I
also need to understand our apis I need
to understand our infrastructure I need
to understand you know how we how we
build product and how we get [__] done
at Shopify so I understand all those
things because I need to tell speak to
it intelligently and with conviction and
with a deep understanding but I'm never
going to write code because there are
people that should write code that are
going to be so much better than I'll
ever be you do you did now Pete I
remember him saying one of the things I
do remember in that meeting I remember
where I was sat it's so funny because it
was such a interesting moment for me I
was very young in my career as like a
CEO and I remember where I sat when he
said and what I recall is he was
referencing that he still felt that
there was work to be done in his role
and that he didn't want to move up into
this I think it was a global role we're
offering him because he didn't feel like
he'd quite finished the work in his
current role which was just in the UK
um you reference spikiness
you know you said you and that gave me
flashbacks to the conversation I had
with um Jimmy Carter he said we don't
need more people that are [__] at
physics find the thing you'll get out
and like double down there as career
advice for an entrepreneur also when
that's not an entrepreneur
what do you mean by spikiness and why is
it important
oh so this is going to be uh a
long-window way to get there but I think
it's important
um I um
when I was building that t-shirt
business in college
a mentor of mine say his name his name
is Philip Reimer he's a senior partner
at a very prestigious law firm called
Dentons they're in the UK they're
everywhere all over the world he's like
you know he's had this incredible white
shoe Law Firm career
he basically convinced me to go to law
school
and he commits me to go to law school
not to become a lawyer he's like the
skill set that you need given what I
think your Ambitions are around business
creation business building
entrepreneurship you are lacking some
sophistication you're you're always
going to struggle with these sort of
things he's like but I have this idea
which is
go to law school not to get good grades
necessarily not to get not to become a
lawyer but to effectively selfishly
disseminate all this information from
your classes to make you a better
entrepreneur
and I think because I sort of had a very
clear view that I wasn't sure at that
time I was 21 when I started law school
I didn't know exactly what my spiky
point was but I knew it had to do with
entrepreneurship and so Phil when you're
21 I didn't know very much at 21. um I
thought this t-shirt business would just
be the thing I'd keep doing for for many
more years
but Phil had this idea that actually to
sharpen your point you should do
something that is not obvious and in
hindsight it really feels like what Phil
was helping me to figure out was finding
more Alpha in terms of Entrepreneurship
finding some Arbitrage opportunity
something that that is that exists that
no one is looking at but that I can take
advantage of something unique is that
what you're saying yes exactly something
really unique that hey you're a good
entrepreneur you're not a great
entrepreneur you're not sophisticated
you you don't understand you don't
understand all these different aspects
of Entrepreneurship you should go to law
school to not to be a lawyer but to be a
better entrepreneur and you should be
selfish in law school and in that in in
your curriculum in deriving as much
insight as possible so when you leave
Law School you can return to
entrepreneurship in a much better
version of yourself because you'll have
something that the competitor set other
ones wouldn't have wouldn't have that's
right so you could have gone like you
know Steve Jobs did that like typography
class that's right and that's where we
have these incredible devices in front
of us that's right so it's an unobvious
skill that's complementary and that's
why I say sort of funny alpha or an
Arbitrage opportunity because it know
it's something that is not obvious to
most people but now in hindsight when
you think about it you're like well that
makes total sense look I I went to like
I went to public high school and it was
a good school but I didn't learn how to
write very well then I went to Mcgill
and economics I didn't learn how to
write very well I learned how to write
really well in law school because all
you're doing is writing factums and
memos all day you know all day long I
learned how to negotiate and how to do a
real critical debate and critical
reasoning I learned how to read 2 000
pages and pick up the one line that
matters
all these things on their own doesn't
seem like it would create
the curriculum of a great long-term
entrepreneur but it did and I think part
of the reason why I allowed myself to go
through that process of law school was I
didn't know exactly what my spiky point
was but it felt like it's it's
definitely in the realm of
Entrepreneurship I didn't realize that I
I would help build a company that would
create millions of new entrepreneurs but
I knew entrepreneurship was deeply
personal to me because it helped me it
was my family Story of Survival it just
felt like this incredible tool that that
most people had not discovered yet and
so on that spiky point I think the
sooner you figure out that spiky point
you don't have to be precise I didn't
know I was going to run a software
company but I knew that entrepreneurship
was deeply important to me and so as I
made decisions starting at 21 years old
every decision was under the lens of is
this going to help sharpen my my my
points is this going to make me a better
entrepreneur and
I think if I would have realized that 10
or 15 years later
um it still would have been fine but it
may have not have happened as it
wouldn't have happened the same way and
it may have not led me to join a group
of you know a handful of really smart
Engineers building this crazy piece of
software called Shopify 14 years ago I
think this is an exceptionally un under
spoken about point which is this idea of
like skill stacking but stacking skills
that are unobvious and rare within an
industry so if we take and I think we
should go through this in a little bit
more detail because I think it can
really have a profound impact on people
I read about how um the best people in
the world I think it's a mathematical
equation where I feel the best at six
skills in an industry that are like
unobvious you actually are the best in a
million people at that thing so I mean
if there's a village of a million people
and they showed this little graph I
remember seeing it and writing about it
a little bit where if you just if you're
just in the top 10 at six complementary
skills you're the best in the village at
that particular thing like Cristiano
Ronaldo the football player he's not the
best he's not the fastest player in the
world he's not the the the um the best
shooter in the world he doesn't take the
best free kicks in the world doesn't
head the ball the best in the world he's
considered the best player in the world
by many because he indexes High the top
10 of various things I think about Jack
he records this podcast now if Jack was
uh wanted to be a podcast director what
all podcast directors or producers do is
they'll go learn how to do microphones
and cameras now interestingly I don't
think that's the the place to be placing
your time to become the best in the
world as we saw in the case of Steve
Jobs he went into typography and design
and then made these beautiful devices
which actually probably go and try and
get an unobvious but I skill that would
be in high demand
and low Supply in this industry so if
Jack went into theater
he would learn maybe about how to
construct a story arc
or if he went and did like I don't know
is that set design also yeah or DJing he
went and learned to be a DJ then he
would learn about stems and musics and
whatever else or set design if he went
and did a theory so and and that would
make him be I'm not using I'm just
saying someone in Jack's position that
would make them be a real [__] hard
to find talent but it's funny because we
can in Industries like I always think
this about um coders and I don't hate to
sort of generalize here but it probably
doesn't sound like a generalization
um it's sometimes hard to find someone
who can code who's also an exceptional
Storyteller and visionary
often in companies they're two separate
roles right so if you're if you're a
coder instead of becoming even better at
coding for example going and doing those
little like public speaking sessions is
probably an unbelievable hack because
then you can build and sell sure and
actually that brings up two points one
is most people start companies with
people just like them yeah yeah most
people start companies of people that
they would have been friends with in
high school I think that's a terrible
idea in fact if you are in college right
now listening or watching this and
you're in the business program Commerce
or you're in the engineering program
don't start a company with the person
sitting next to you walk across the
street go to a different faculty go to
faculty of Arts or the faculty of
philosophy or the faculty of engineering
and find someone there to start a
company with I think some of the best
Partnerships and relationships that I've
seen that have built things that are
that change the world from a company
perspective philanthropically whatever
the whatever they're trying to build
might be
building with other people with
complementary skill sets is incredibly
valuable in fact I think you get a much
richer set of stacking of skills you
mentioned DJing in terms of skill set
I never appreciated ever
how important my experience DJ and
teaches like hundreds and hundreds of
bar mitzvahs over my time hundreds I
never appreciated what I learned from as
a DJ and how I'm how I apply to running
a large public company but the truth is
there's all these different things so
for example something I noticed early on
it's like 14 or 15 years old if the
pre-meeting went really well with the
clients no matter how the party went it
was going to be a great result because I
had a good relationship a good
connection with the client even if half
the party didn't want to dance the
client knew me and knew enough about me
and knew that I was going to try my best
that even if half the party was dancing
they were happy about that and they were
in your sign and they were on my side
there was this immediate connection and
so now before I go into any any you know
serious negotiation I try to get to know
the person on the other side of the
table I try to find some common ground
where both dads or both parents or both
you know uh whatever we're both from the
same place
the first thing the second thing is read
the room so one of the things about
DJing you have to do is you have to read
the audience and if the audience you
know is clearly if you're if you're
playing disco and no one's dancing and
you got to make you know like a hard
right into hip-hop or a rap or something
or top 40 like you can see glimpses of
that you try one song you see how people
you watch their faces how do people
resonate oh they really like this song
great I'm gonna go like Mo Money Mo
Problems from Notorious B.I.G and the
whole crowd erupts things like that
really do make a difference
um you know there is instead of asking
people to get up from their chairs and
come onto the Dance Floor which is an
awkward thing to ask people to do after
dinner instead have something in the
middle of the dance where the people
want to see so maybe for example one of
the people that is hosting makes a
speech and you say ladies and gentlemen
at this point please please get up in
your chairs and take 10 steps forward
because the Father of the Bride is gonna
say a few words and everyone gets up and
comes on the dance floor and then when
that speech is done everyone's already
on the dance floor and so finding these
hacks and these these sort of ways to
um not manipulate but but but find
better strategies for getting the thing
accomplished I learned all that in DJing
and I can apply all that to running a
large public company today
this um you know when we start
businesses and stuff go back to that
point again like we we tend to go deep
on the subject matter but what I've
heard from that is our hobbies and the
things and the Curiosity we have outside
of the area that we're building in is
equally important then like if I'm
building up like I don't know if I'm
building a um I'm building mugs for
people to drink tea out of
much of my inspiration will come from
all the other things I do in my part and
the problem is we kind of de-prioritize
that part of our Lives to focus on this
thing but taking a step away from the
painting allows us to see the picture a
bit clearer and also to to create that
picture a bit clearer which I think is a
conversation people don't have enough
because they think their hobbies are
again deductive toys or games yeah yeah
I totally agree yeah I mean look I mean
this is what a polymath is a polymath
understands a lot of different areas of
the world uh or comprehensivist
understand a lot of hair and pulls those
different things in my um what's the
polymath sorry uh polymath is someone
who knows a lot about a lot of different
things okay
now there are two things that I've done
that were hobbies that ended up being
hugely valuable is one my wife started
an ice cream company in 2016 after we
had our first daughter uh after our
first child my wife really wanted to
start an ice cream shop in our in our in
our neighborhood there was an ice cream
shop and so it was clear it was her
business not mine she was very clear
about that she wanted Independence but
even just helping her on things like
accounting or um accounts payable or
accounts receivable or helping your
procure ice cream from the ice cream
makers that was super valuable because
one it built huge empathy for the people
that you shop that are starting out the
second thing I did was
um during the pandemic
I was all by myself I'm an extrovert as
as you probably can tell
um my anxiety had had increased to a
degree that I had not felt in many many
years and what I realized was I was
drinking so much more coffee
when I was by myself at home way more
like double or even triple the
consumption and my best friend
um who's a sort of a Teague you know T
guy loves tea said to me I'm gonna
actually get you to stop drinking coffee
in the afternoon and replace your coffee
with really great green tea I wasn't
really a tea drinker and so David
started to bring me this great tea and
at some point I was like you know David
I want to actually experiment with more
of the features on Shopify and I think
this tea thing I think most people's
experience with tea was like someone
getting like this gift basket and it was
some bunch of crappy team there I was
like people don't know like about this
really great tea they don't know how to
make it they don't know what to use it
for when to drink it and so we created
this this little tea business called
fire belly and both both those things
were sort of hobbies in my life they
were sort of Sunday afternoon activities
I don't really watch sports on Sunday
afternoons I like to Tinker and and try
different business ideas both those
things have made me as a leader Shopify
so much more valuable I understand
pretty much every feature and
functionality that Shopify has because I
tried for myself
and initially when I told people that I
was starting a little tea business the
answer was I don't like why are you
doing that that seems silly you're not
going to change your life financially it
feels like a distraction and I would say
that's one of the greatest tools that
I've ever greatest things that I've ever
done that has made me a better leader at
Shopify and it's just a hobby there's
something really really powerful in that
because when we when I started this
conversation I asked you why people
don't take the leap and a lot of the
reason why I think is because and we
talked about the psychology is when I
think about starting a business like a
tea business
or any business I'm stood at the bottom
of Mount Everest looking out thinking
Jesus Christ like I've got to find a
website as you said I think I need loads
of money who's going to work for me
where do I get the tea from how do I
send it in the post
um what's the packaging I need to do
branding and I need to do it all now
and
and also there's this other thing which
in our minds we think of success as
being
me making millions or me making a ton of
money what what I almost heard as you're
telling that t-story was like
have this passion
remove the expectation which so David
brailles would told me about really well
just remove the expectation if you have
ever been anything more than a hobby and
just get going and you'll you'll stumble
forward along the way and and that's
okay I think if more entrepreneurs could
see that Mount Everest there's just a
bunch of Pebbles and there's and remove
the time frame where possible remove the
expectation of huge success and just
stumble forward through the process we'd
have so many great great more businesses
than we do now and everyone listening to
this has that they have the hobby they
have the they love tea or they love I
know coffee or matcha or whatever it is
that perspective change of like okay
well today I'm going to start my Shopify
store tomorrow I'll think of the name I
won't I won't even tell anybody just to
remove even more expectation and I'll
just stumble forward through in my hobby
and see where we get to in 10 years most
people on Shopify don't register their
business until weeks after they sign up
for Shopify
so most people don't even assume they're
going to need to register a business and
that's okay and it's not to say that
every idea you have in the shower needs
to be commercialized needs to see the
light of day but if if there's an idea
you have in the shower and you're having
it a couple days in a row
try it out like I mean this isn't a
pitch for Shopify but like it's
it's less than a couple Starbucks
coffees to go start a business today
and if you fail the cost of failure is
as close to zero as it's ever been you
don't have to take a loan out of you
don't have to mortgage your house you
don't have to take food off the table
hopefully
and if it works you try it and if it
doesn't work you try something different
but this idea of
yeah there's like this barrier to
getting started and I think you know one
of the reasons that I think one of the
best times to start your entrepreneurial
career or your entrepreneurial you know
business
isn't isn't School the reason I think is
because when you're in school as a
student there's very few expectations on
you that this is going to be a huge
success so it's kind of the perfect time
to get started whether you're in high
school like with my DJ business or in
college with my with when I sold
t-shirts
there was very little expectation on me
no one thought it was going to be
successful anyway you still want
everyone in class yeah they're like
great you're that's so cool you have a
business no one asked me what my revenue
is no one's asking about my ibit of
margins I think it is a lot easier to
get started on a business when you're in
school or you're where you have a job
and this is sort of your side Hustle the
amount of people
shop by right now is about 10 of all
e-commerce in the United States in
places like Australia it's even way more
than that
um
I know most of our largest Merchants
because I'm obsessed with this stuff I
love it most of the businesses on
Shopify that are really successful the
Homegrown success stories they were
accidental it was Heather and Sharina
sitting at a coffee shop not too far
from here with a friend of theirs I was
a doctor who was wearing these hospital
scrubs that just looked like [__]
they're like we can do this better and
that's what figs was born it was Ben
Francis who said why is there no clothes
for just regular gym people either it's
like gym rat stuff like bodybuilders or
it's yoga and that was the that's how
gymshark came to the world or it's Tim
and Joey and Albert saying why is there
no really great sustainable sneaker that
feels good that's washable that costs
this amount of money that was that
that's how Alberts got started so most
no one had this massive 80-page business
plan and then got started that's not how
businesses are created in modern times
they're created based on this nugget of
an idea and they're explored and you
have and you get curious about you try
this other stuff and that's how you
build companies that are long lasting
that change the [__] world and that's
how Shopify was started as well indeed
indeed it was an immigrant from Germany
coming to Canada because he fell in love
with a girl and got to got to this new
country and couldn't get a job because
he didn't have his working papers and
was told he can start a business and he
looks around and he sees snow everywhere
and he says I'm going to start a
snowboard company
and in 2004 there's two ways to sell a
product on the Internet one way you sell
them in a Marketplace which is very
cheap very inexpensive like eBay or
something exactly but you're renting
customers from that Marketplace they're
not your customers
the other way was to spend seven figures
no exaggeration and have one of these
big Enterprise companies build you an
online store
I didn't have that kind of money he
didn't like those options so you wrote a
piece of software and started selling
snowboards and the snowboard shop was
called snow devil and very quickly
people started asking him if they can
use the software to sell their own
products and he decided snowboard store
was a good idea but the software behind
it was a great idea and that was how
shop I was born and I met Toby around
that time when he was transitioning from
snowboards into software and I became
one of the first customers to do Shopify
in 2006. and then you were the first
non-technical employee as well that's
right yeah and a couple years later
after Law School
uh I called him and said I want to join
you in a small handful of Engineers
smartest people I've ever met in my life
still to this day and said let me let me
be your Swiss army knife let me come in
I don't care what you call me I'll be
sales I'll be Finance I'll be marketing
I'll form Partnerships I'll do uh I'll
do anything and everything you need
because I believe the world will be
better if we actually get this thing off
the ground and we've been working at
this for you know it's my 14th year now
when people hear their stories of these
you know couple of
a couple of women a couple of men a
couple of people who
had an idea they saw a kind of Gap in
the market they pivoted into it
seamlessly and here we are today you
know it's worth tens of billions of
dollars whatever that
I want to zoom in on a particular thing
which is at that time because I hear
this all the time from entrepreneurs
it's one of again one of the barriers
for them starting is well someone's
already doing it there's competition and
I think about every business that I've
been involved in that's been successful
and at the time when I did it there was
someone that was way further down the
head than me and probably better
capitalize better capitalized
information that's right yeah smarter
yeah all those things and it never has
mattered and I I can't quite articulate
why it doesn't matter I could probably
try but I want you to
um when
Toby that small group of people yourself
went off on that Journey was their
competitors totally tons very well big
ones too Yahoo stores
no idea in 2006 Yahoo is a really big
company
Yahoo stores existed there were
companies called Magento which isn't
still around today uh yeah not not as
prevalent but that was around there were
major competitors out there but the idea
wasn't necessarily to to try to do
something no one else was doing it was
try to do it better and that I think is
the difference between
the great companies and and just the
good companies that there are always
going to be good companies out there but
most of them are not necessarily trying
to completely you know like move the
needle on like what is possible
um all of those companies by the way
that existed when Shopify was just
getting started
served a particular segment it was
either for you know
like arts and crafts like an Etsy kind
of style or for big companies IBM sap
Oracle had competitors there uh Yahoo
store is focused on very very small
businesses but
we never gave ourselves those
constraints it was let's allow people
and enable them to build beautiful
online stores quickly effectively that
were customized for their particular
brand and and try to bend the learning
curve around entrepreneurship and over
time like over many you know oh it's
it's now almost 20 years over time we're
like let's add payments let's add
Capital Let's help with fulfillment we
should do point of sale because physical
retail is important what if we also help
them with things like cross-selling
across different markets what if we
create sort of a bank account to help
them manage their cash flow over time it
sort of evolved from that but
the initial idea had lots of other
competitors in the space this was not
this massive novel thing we just did it
better and it's funny because a lot of
those competitors we absolutely do not
remember now because you did it better
and that's the really important
perspective shift which is not like am I
the only one with this idea there's
probably not a lot of value in the idea
itself but the execution of that idea
can I do it better is really where
winners and losers are established so
that begs the question
how what's the philosophy and I'm very
intentional with the word philosophy
there that enables a team to take a
challenge where there's multiple
competitors in your view and just do it
better
I mean it's gonna sound trade but but
you know having deep empathy for health
merchants and help your customer use
your product is very very important and
I think a lot of companies lose out of
that they pre they focus on what you
know what is what is known as like Wales
like who are the power users let's focus
on that
but we never did that we actually think
that the
all of the merchants that I brought up
so far in our conversation were
Merchants that started at their mom's
kitchen table that grew to be
multi-billion dollar you know hegemonic
um incumbents
it's great I love that we have Staples
and I love that we have Spanx and I love
that we have you know uh um uh Black and
Decker and Mattel using Shopify but but
those are companies that were already
successful before they started using
Shopify the stores that we are most
proud of that we love to talk about are
the Homegrown success stories because
even though we are not responsible for
their success we simply made the journey
a little bit less difficult over time
but the way that we think about these
sort of things are
can we use software can we use
technology to make things better and by
doing by adding more value A dispatch
amount of value every single step of the
way we think we build a lot of loyalty
with our merchants and that what then
happens is the ones that do become
successful never leave Shopify so there
are people that start a business that
that fails
um and and they decide to either shut it
down or they decide to Pivot to a
different business we're okay with that
we're not changing physics we know that
that most small businesses will not be
multi-millionaire companies over time
but key for us is that the ones that do
succeed never have to leave the platform
so it's almost like when you start on
Shopify it's super easy super simple in
an hour or two you can build a beautiful
online store but over time as the
complexity of your business increases
the solutions on Shopify sort of reveals
itself over time but it does so at the
right time so you are not overwhelmed
and I think we are very hard on
ourselves
and I mean that's the right term we're
hard on ourselves that we really want to
continue to push the envelope here's a
very simple example
um everyone right now is talking about
AI everyone's obviously chat EBT is
really really cool we were using it
already in a couple different ways but
the way we thought about it when it
first came out was this is all great
very cool technology
what is it going to do for merchants
what is the Practical implications of AI
on the lives of of the merchants and for
us was like well wouldn't be cool if AI
helped Merchants write product
descriptions
so you you put in your product
photography or some meta tags and chat
gbt helps you write a product
description that will convert better
that is really practical
um you know obviously in web 3 for
example we always thought about this is
all cool technology the blockchain is
amazing what can we do with it what if
we can do token gated Commerce so that
you can reward your most loyal customers
with new opportunities new discounts new
events
we use this lens of of of practicality
across every single feature we have and
we also think about well what happens if
this particular Merchant gets really
really big
um I have a bit of a Moby Dick story
um my Moby Dick in terms of Shopify the
the one brand Merchant that I've wanted
on Shopify for so damn long is a company
called Supreme
they're incredible the Supreme story is
amazing but the reason I wanted Supreme
on Shopify so badly more than almost
every other any other brand
um is because I knew that they would
test the limits of Shopify their flash
sales are probably the largest flash
sales across the entire internet which
means they're probably the largest flash
sales across all of retail and I knew
that if we got them on it would pull
Shopify into a new category of
resiliency of performance
most companies would have shot away from
that most companies have been like we
don't want Supreme we know they're a
great brand but they're gonna break this
place they're gonna break our product
they're gonna break our infrastructure
we invite that in we want Supreme to be
on because we know that if we can handle
an iconic Supreme flash sale we can
handle anything else and there's a
little bit of like a there's a great
book by Nissim tele called anti-fragile
are you familiar with that I love that
book and and oh yeah for those that
haven't read the book All you have to
understand is that
there are three systems there's the
fragile system I take this glass I drop
it it breaks there's a robust system I
take this I drop it it stays stays as a
glass but there's a third system like
the immune system where if you break it
it actually rebuilds itself better
stronger faster and shopify's
fundamentally an anti-fragile company
and I think you your companies are the
same way you guys invite
what called pain called challenge
because ultimately you want to come out
the other side better and most companies
like literally 95 percent of companies
out there maybe more don't want that
pain they want to be copacetic and they
want to continue the status quo
really interesting you know I I mean my
head went all over the place when you're
just going through those stories because
I remember when this podcast started to
grow our provider actually told us to
leave because we're bringing too much
traffic so that provider is never going
to have incredibly sexual successful
podcast ever again because they told you
to leave what if they would have invited
you to stay and said we're going to
build more resiliency yeah for you they
were like complaining about us they were
like shame on this shame on them yeah so
we we moved to a different um someone
else that could host us because they
said that there we had too many
downloads or something you have too many
deaths that is literally saying you were
too successful am I right jack I want to
make sure I'm correct because you dealt
with them yeah
we were causing
them I mean we're not costing them too
much money by the way most companies are
like that they fire customers that pull
them in in different directions as
opposed to the best companies Embrace
that and say come break our stuff it's
going to make us better if you believe
like and by the way anti-fragility is
not just something for companies also
for human beings I think all the stuff
we talked about about my upbringing made
me better Made Me Stronger do I wish if
those things wouldn't have happened
potentially I mean in hindsight I wish I
would have had less anxiety maybe but
maybe I would be sitting here with with
you Steve today if those things wouldn't
have happened it's resilience the
antidote for that and and if so then how
do we Foster resilience in teams and
people because if you're at Shopify and
you're an ambitious company as I know
you guys are and you're saying you know
AI comes out and you're saying to the
team listen forward let's figure this
thing out let's let's build some stuff
and let's try it let's go forward
you're gonna have to bring people along
with you and those people are gonna go I
just got comfortable with with what
we're doing now Harley and now you're
telling me to so do you how do you
create that culture that Fosters that
sense of like resiliency and positive
attitude towards change okay two things
one is resiliency can be taught you're
not born resilient you can actually
learn resiliency you can learn from your
experiences you can learn it from
practice but resiliency I don't believe
if some of you either have or you don't
you can actually build resiliency in
fact I think people the most interesting
people that I know that are resilient
have had something happen to them that
allowed them to build resilience on
their own some of them you know cracked
but others actually it's like you know
the the the metaphor that I love to use
like a huge tidal wave is coming some
people grab their surfboards and some
people run for the beach get the towel I
like to surfboard people the surfboard
people are my people those are the
entrepreneurs
in terms of how we do it at Shopify is
Shopify as a company building software
for entrepreneurs that is built by
entrepreneurs the like the amount of
people at Shopify who had a business
have a business are about to start a
business have side hustles anyone you've
ever met that works at Shopify because I
know the people you've met at Shopify
Steve they're also entrepreneurs and
actually rather than on doing their own
Ventures we are collectively coming
together to build something much bigger
together like one plus one equals ten
um and I think one of the ways that you
Foster a culture of resiliency is look
for the entrepreneurs the reason I met
Toby in 2005 was I moved to Ottawa to go
to law school had no friends no family
never been to the city I only went there
because a mentor told me to go to law
school and he was teaching law at the
University of Ottawa that's how I got
there and I asked one simple question
anyone I met where do the entrepreneurs
hang out and I found this coffee shop
with five other entrepreneurs who every
Friday night got together and spent time
learning from each other and sharing War
Stories and sharing tactics and that
became my tribe one of those
entrepreneurs was Toby so I love
entrepreneurial people I love resilient
people and so you can search those
people out when you're building your
company or trying to create a culture
that is you know super effective that
has it looks for it looks for the alpha
opportunities that is very ambitious
that works hard
invite entrepreneurs into your company
create an environment that entrepreneurs
want to be there and and I think that's
what we've done and I think we've met 10
000 people at Shopify and I would say
the vast majority of them would say
they're either entrepreneurs or aspiring
entrepreneurs but every single person at
Shopify is very entrepreneurial and it's
the same reason where you told me a
story earlier
About You Know Jack taking a photo of
the of the bookshelf yeah
I mean I'm not just saying because he's
filming us and he's got to make me look
good here but like that's the
entrepreneurial way to do it the
non-entrepreneur way to do it is to be
like yeah we need some books you have
the exact same books behind you here as
you do in London
most people won't notice that but I
noticed the amount of attention and to
detail you have and the care you've
taken that every that that b is exactly
where the B is on the shelf behind you
that matters it doesn't matter to
everybody but it matters to the right
types of people and when you do that you
invite more of those people into your
life
do you think as well though that
when you think about companies and
leaders and how the culture is set and
how that philosophy of like attention to
detail is set I've often thought that
you might get like a group of people
like Disciples of the culture maybe the
original Founders or something and they
said they set that philosophy they go
this is who we are we care about the
bookshelf being the same no matter where
we are in the world and then you have
this other type of people who are
susceptible to go either way depending
on the culture they're in
and if a culture is strong those people
become the culture the cultures if they
went somewhere else they'd probably
behave differently
and but that comes down to the culture
just being absolutely crystal clear and
the hiring of that culture being
disciplined and the firing yeah I mean
let me let me disagree with you on one
point I don't think culture should be
static I actually think that every new
person that joins your company or my
company the culture should change
slightly and hopefully it gets better
over time but I think there's a lot of
companies that they put a a poster of an
eagle up on the wall that says
leadership underneath and they call that
culture
or they say you know they're famously
Patty McCormick created what's what's
now damn soon as the Netflix culture
guide yeah I remember and what was cool
about that was the talent team
recruiting team at Netflix gave out this
culture guide in advance of you even
applying to Netflix it was a public
document so you can read this and if
this does not resonate or this is
offensive to you don't even apply I
think it's actually a very good thing to
do because it's just it's very honest
about this is the type of place I think
one of the one of the funniest lines in
there was
um uh mediocre performance will lead to
uh Superior Severance I love that right
it's super super cool so
there's there's that aspect which I
think is is really interesting but I
think the culture should continue to
evolve and everyone that joins it should
get better and better
but I want to just say something like
this is this Narrative of the early days
I think it's [__] like this is a
better version of Shopify right now than
we've ever had our team is better our
leaders are better yeah there's some
Romanticism about the early days where
you know like there's a photo that
floats around every now and then of me
sweeping the floors I get it that was
kind of romantic that we sleep the
floors ourselves but I actually think
over time you can have a fat if you like
part of this is like is your company
founder-led or professionally managed
and those are fine things but it I don't
actually think you need to actually have
a Founder there to be to have a Founder
mindset I think you actually need to
have
if your culture is strong and people do
the right thing when no one is watching
and people are constantly challenging
each other and people are constantly
trying to like pull the product in in a
really unique positive way
that's a place where more people like us
want to work and therefore other people
like us want to work as well and
that's why I love the idea of like
building a company for entrepreneurs
built by entrepreneurs that is really
compelling when I when I when I speak
about culture I think I'm kind of using
the word interchangeably with the word
um in that particular case maybe the
word values but let's if we think about
company culture in the context you're
describing it I was um I was doing some
writing over New Years and I was looking
at the life cycles of companies and they
they often start like Cults and I went
through I think IBM Instagram all of
these huge companies and I found quotes
of the founders describing the early
days like a cult
and then they go into this kind of
growth phase where because everything is
breaking and they're trying to keep up
with the market demand they're having to
like rapidly install processes this is
usually where Founders like hire someone
who's got like gray hair who's done it
before and they sit them down with the
little cult and they're like hump in
that growth phase and then they get to
kind of like this Enterprise phase where
the processes are in place work-life
balance has kind of been restored they
have a lot of people so now they have
like a HR department and things are
different now
going back to that first phase that cult
phase
it seemed pretty clear to me even like
Peter there was a quote from Peter Thiel
where he was like you know
um see what's the effect of the start
should resemble a cult do you believe
that it's something I've pondered
because the word go is such a toxic word
so be careful yeah I mean I I I yeah I
don't know I'm not sure if cult's word I
would use what I do think is that you
need to have like and this is not just
in early days it's at every stage of a
great company you have to have a strong
mission
and part of the reason that I think
Shopify
for me at least is the place where I can
do my best work is because the mission
is not interesting or cool or it really
hits home for me
I'm not it's not to say that I wouldn't
be a good a good president of of Pepsi
I'm sure Pepsi's Mission I don't know
what it is but I assume it's something
like do something with the world and
make people happy or something like that
ultimately they're selling products
they're selling sugar water and they're
selling candy and they're selling chips
and whatever they whatever Pepsi sells
I don't think I can do my life's work at
Pepsi I don't because ultimately at the
end of the day the mission of the
company even if you add all types of you
know rose petal glasses and and you say
well we're not it's we're not selling
Cola we are you know we are nourishing
the Youth of the world to pursue their
you're selling something that like I
like but I don't really love
and I think if you're if you have the
ability to find a company whose mission
you believe in in every in any stage
really hits you hard that's probably the
company you should go work at and you've
probably seen that for a very long time
and even the fact that
not every not every person needs to say
to every company forever not everyone's
gonna be a lifer that's okay people want
to jump on the bus and or the rocket
ship at different times that's fine but
I think you do your best work when the
mission of the company deeply reflects
your own life's Mission if I wasn't at
Shopify if Shopify didn't exist I
probably would be doing something around
encouraging more entrepreneurship
inspiring more entrepreneurs creating
tools that help entrepreneurs start
scale and build faster
I just found this this vehicle that does
it way more efficiently than I ever
could do on my own it's called Shopify
so you damn right I'm going to want to
be on that bus or that rocket ship
but I don't think it has anything to do
with what's on the wall I think it has
to do with the fact like what is the
company actually doing if you strip away
all the marketing speak and all the
brands speak what is the point of the
company what's the objective and I think
that's that really matters
for those entrepreneurs then that
Shopify supports when we talked about
this Mount Everest analogy where you're
you're thinking about starting a
business you're looking up it feels
super intimidating we talked about how
you can break that down into simpler
steps focusing on turning your hobby
into a into a small business you gave
the example that many of shopify's
merchants don't even register the
company by the time they start the store
the other part that's um intimidating
when I'm thinking about starting a
business if I'm a startup entrepreneur
it's just information and you used a
word earlier on use the word mentorship
now okay I've got a philosophy to how
I'm going to start it I'm going to focus
on a hobby Harley
um I don't need a ton of capital as
you've outlined but then there's this
information piece which it may be the
most important piece because information
for example is even the knowledge that a
Shopify exists it's also like how do I
find where I'm gonna get this tea from
how would you recommend an entrepreneur
solve the information problem
and if you could give me some kind of
reference to your framework on on
mentorship that'd be super helpful yeah
I mean the mentorship framework that I
use it's actually really simple it's
that I don't think any any one
particular Mentor is going to be uh you
should wholesale take everything they
say
um Lindsay and I got married in 2013 and
I thought about
who are all the people that
I perceived to have a really great
relationship with our spouses
and I went through the list and I kind
of laughed I was like okay like
am I really gonna ask that person who my
mentor like I don't really respect that
person in any other Avenue in their life
so like why would that person be my
mentor so I went through this list and I
realized you know what like I'm I'm
doing this all wrong if I want to be a
really good husband a really good father
a really good leader of Shopify I want
to be a really good human being from a
charity or philanthropy perspective
instead of trying to find one size fits
all like one person does all those
things where it all comes together it
would be so much better for me actually
to just focus on verticals so in the
vertical of parenting who's someone that
I think does a really good job in
parenting
three or four people I'll give them a
call the neat part about doing it that
way as opposed to saying and by the way
the person that like
can't believe I'm sharing this but this
is kind of funny
um I told you about a mentor of mine
that convinced me to go to law school
I love that guy he's a huge part of my
life he's on his third marriage yeah
he's not going to be my marriage Mentor
he'll be a divorcement maybe yeah but
he's really good about understanding
skill set or skill stacking as we talked
about there was someone that I called
when I was about to get married to
Lindsay who I just felt had the most
special relationship with his wife and I
began meeting him and asking questions
about how do you cultivate that the same
thing with parenting but all of these
mentors in each of these verticals
they're not the same people now the
reason that's that's that's important is
because like that like a video game or
like any skill set you can't be good at
everything and so I'm able to derive
different things from each of these
mentors and then create my own version
of it but the second reason is so it's a
really cool way to do it is
that person who is a really great
husband but maybe not a great
entrepreneur a lot of people like no one
else is calling him to ask for his
advice on parenting because most people
are like well he's not someone I'd want
to emulate because in business he's not
that successful or or in other aspects
of Life he's not someone who had wanna
Who had who I admire
and so the way that I've always thought
of mentoring is find these different
people for different aspects of your
life and then as as your
as you evolve you may have to replace
them and bring them in bring them out
some people may be around for a long
time other people after two years I mean
I had a really good Mentor around
parenting who was really only valuable
for newborns and it turned out that
couple years you know as the kids grew
it wasn't doing a very good job he
wasn't teaching his kids all the cool
stuff that I want to teach my kids like
skiing for example
so that's part of my philosophy on on
mentorship
um more generally I think there's sort
of two sides so you have mentorship on
this side which is like people you want
to emulate but there's also sort of the
tribe side of things and the one thing
that I don't think enough people take
advantage of is whatever company you're
trying to build in whatever vertical or
geography or or you know whatever place
there are probably dozens of other
people doing that exact same thing
whether you're in London or you're in
like Ottawa Canada
and finding a group of people who are at
a similar stage even if they're not
doing the same like if I'm building a
t-shirt business and you're building a
DJ company like but I'm just getting
started you're just getting started we
probably both need to figure out like
how to set up a bank accounts and how to
get our first sale and we probably have
to figure out like simple bookkeeping
for example so finding people that
actually are the similar stage even if
they're not the same vertical as you are
is super valuable and those people exist
they're everywhere but finding them used
to be really difficult I think now it's
much easier go to Reddit look on YouTube
like you can literally go there's a
video about bookkeeping for DJ companies
there's probably a video on YouTube
Somewhere go look at the comments who's
engaging the comments there who's
replying to those comments or on Reddit
who's sort of a power user in a
particular subreddit you can find those
people either online or or in person and
you can build yourself and informal
board of directors when you're getting
started now if one of you eclipses the
other in terms of growth you're probably
not going to find as much value from
that particular tribe as you as you
previously did you're going on a
different tribe but if you do this over
time you actually end up with far more
the acquisition of information gets much
easier over time and I don't think
enough people take advantage of that if
I if I gave you
um if I give you three million dollars
and I said Harley you've got to invest
one million dollars in three companies
more specifically three founders that
are currently Shopify customers who
would you invest it in and why would you
choose those entrepreneurs and founders
it's like asking me like you know choose
your babies yeah choose your favorite
child yeah really I'm trying to get the
characteristics of the founders that you
back you know I I know right now it's
almost uh if you saw a word clouded
social media right now the term content
creator would come up probably more than
another other tournament I think
actually it is completely misguided of
what people think content creators are
or do I think a lot of people assume
that what's happening right now in sort
of the content creation spaces you have
someone that has a super successful
podcast for example or a super
successful blog or super successful you
know YouTube channel
and they want to
they want to expand their monetization
so they do something like they make
t-shirts with you know the dire with Co
on it the greatest content creators now
that I see really building their brands
are doing something totally different
and I know this is
an obvious example but
what Kylie Jenner did with Kylie
Cosmetics is nothing short of brilliant
now it's not to say that that you know
she came with a built-in audience she
was on this crazy TV show for her whole
childhood
she was someone who if you followed her
on social media eight years ago eight
years ago you would have seen she really
cares about makeup she was in makeup
tutorials and she was doing makeup
classes and she was giving tips and
tricks about makeup
and then eventually she's like you know
what I want to create a better version
of makeup for myself and so she went
into the lab I know where the lab is not
too far from here I know the store
really well and she went and she created
what she believed was a better version
of makeup called Kylie cosmetics and
then she brought it to the world
what Jimmy did with
like Beast burgers or with feastables Mr
Beast Mr Pizza yeah Mr Beast did with
with with with Beast burger or feasible
he didn't just go and go to a chocolate
company and say I want to create a Mr
Beast chocolate bar he went he loves
chocolate he loves chocolate he also
love burgers and he said let's create a
Better Burger than I can get right now
on Uber Eats and he went and he
cultivated it he said this is [__]
delicious and now he's going to actually
distribute it he's going to actually
scale it those are I would definitely
put one of those millions of dollars
into the hands of a Creator who's on the
precipice of figuring out what exactly
does my audience like and then creating
a better version of that
because I think that most of the content
creators out there do create promotional
products where they put their sticker on
something that already exists but the
good ones the great ones they actually
improve on what already exists in the
world and then they have a built-in
distribution Channel because they
already have an audience so that would
be the first one the second one I think
would be someone who does something very
nichy
um
you and I are both in black t-shirts in
my opinion there's someone who thinks
about black t-shirts more than anybody
else on the planet his name is James
James purse James purse is obsessed with
black t-shirts and so I love wearing
black t-shirts so this is maybe a
selfish one but I'd put a million
dollars out of the three million that
you're you're giving me metaphorically
into James and I would say go do more of
this because I actually now I'm not sure
he needs my money I'm certainly Mr Beast
doesn't eat my money either but I love
the idea of someone going super deep on
one particular thing and building the
best version of it on the planet I don't
think most people do it I think most
people start with something like a
t-shirt and they go very very Broad and
James hasn't I mean he has he makes
other clothing but he has a ping pong
table I'm not joking that he makes which
is the most beautiful ping pong table
he's ever I've ever seen he he has a
couple of these sort of villa rentals in
Mexico
um which he designed himself but he's he
it's one particular vertical that I
think is really really cool maybe the
third thing that I would uh that I'd
invest in so content creator be first
someone like James purse who does one
vertical really well be the second the
third one would be someone who
is trying to bring something that was
unattainable for the masses into their
hands so
this microphone that we're using right
now is a sure sm7b and from everything
I've read because I like this type of
stuff it is like one of the greatest
pieces of engineering audio engineering
ever created which is why sure who makes
the microphone hasn't really changed it
much this is a great microphone
it's expensive
someone who is taking a microphone like
this this type of quality and creating a
less expensive version of this so more
people can try their head at podcasting
that would be really cool too
interesting making light quality more
accessible to the masses right that's
right and I don't just mean like there
are other good microphones out there but
you know the difference between a DSLR
camera that we're using now versus a
webcam of course and in terms of the
characteristics of the human
what what do you bet on
I mean we talked about this a lot so
it's going to sound repetitive but it's
resiliency I'm looking for those
surfboard people the people that see
that wave and grab the surfboard I want
people that are optimistic but I think
generally the people that are that grab
the surfboard are optimistic I want
people that are hard working but I find
generally the people that grab the
surfboard are also hard working I want
people that are High character I think
those are often the same people but I
want someone who
um
if you were to give them a million
dollars or 10 million or 100 million
dollars they would still do the exact
same thing the day later because that is
their mission that is their life's work
and I think if you find that you should
cherish that anyone who's watching that
has found that thing that no matter what
they had or don't have would do this
particular thing those are the types of
people that I would back I don't really
care where they're based I don't really
care what their experience is
um I care about are they the surfboard
people because I think surfboard people
are deeply curious and deeply ambitious
we spoke to your team and asked them
what you in particular were good at
um oh God they um
they did not tell me you did that did
they not they did not we said we said
could you tell us everything Harley's
good at and there was like a big sort of
30 second pause and then they just hung
up the phone and so we couldn't so we'll
move on um I Heard the gas but backstage
here yeah
I probably couldn't hear that on the mic
so everyone everyone that like Works
closely on my team uh are all also all
entrepreneurs himself they all have side
hustles oh really cool yeah no they said
lots of many many amazing things about
you um many many amazing things the the
one that I wanted to focus in on because
I couldn't quite I wanted you to kind of
explain this is
one of your team members said he's very
very good at the telescope process of
effective prioritization
what What on earth does that mean
a calendar everything
well they made it sound much better
maybe they should be the storytelligence
I I truly like before I came here I want
to grab a quick coffee
um that was in the calendar
my my meditation this morning is in the
calendar the things that I really really
care about I diarize and I stick to that
diarization and because of that I think
it's easier for me to prioritize what's
important in my life both professionally
and personally than most people who they
try to fit things in
um I often don't walk into a place you
know you ever meet those people that are
like they're always kind of in a rush me
okay I'm not I'm usually not a rush I'm
I'm hard driving and I'm like I'm always
you know super go go go all the time but
I'm not usually not a Russian and the
reason is because the things that are
deeply important to me
are in the calendar and I think most
people don't I think the user I think a
lot of people use their calendar for
diarizing a zoom call or diarizer you
know scheduling I don't know like lunch
I I this is gonna sound maybe lame to
some people it's worked well for me in
my calendar you will see walk with
Lindsay like walk with my wife you will
see like ski time with Bailey or Zoe
um everything is in the calendar every
person that I want to hang out with that
I want to actually a mentor of mine that
I don't think I'm spending enough time
with they go in the calendar every four
weeks and I commit to that that helps me
I'm not sure I'm like the world's
greatest prioritizer but because that
I'm able to prioritize things in a way
that that
I think most people may not always be
able to do so that that's one thing in
terms of the other prioritization
um
there's very few things that are like
nice to haves in my life I I don't do
the nice to have thing these are things
that are in my life are must-haves and
um
Shopify is very important to me Lindsay
and the girls are very important to me
um like some of the charity projects
we're doing particularly some some of
the um uh some of the Jewish charity
projects we're doing right now in Canada
are very important to me there's not
much else I'm not trying to also qualify
for a marathon I'm not also trying to
um you know do research on some other
topic like this is kind of the stuff
that matters and so when
when our when we first you and I first
connected
I knew that I would one day would love
to be on your show why because like when
I think about do you know the concept
icky guy yeah yeah so when I think about
the ikigai concept which is really
life's work by the way just a Japanese a
Japanese version of it which is far more
uh elegant than than the term life's
work but what am I good at what is the
world going to find Value in what can I
get paid for and and
um and what what adds the most amount of
value I think generally I forgot the
exact terms
this conversation with you hits a bunch
of those like the intersections of Venn
diagram this hits you're a great
entrepreneur your audience are great
entrepreneurs I knew the conversation
would be interesting because I listened
to this podcast and I love your show
um it was obvious to say yes
if someone else asked me
to to to do a conversation for a couple
of hours like we are today I have to put
it through the filter of like where does
this hit on the ikigai Spectrum or on
the life's work Spectrum
I think that's why they say that as
you'll know if you've listened to the
last few episodes of this podcast we're
now sponsored by the incredible whoop
and if you're anything like me and
juggling a fair few things every day
whoop could be a real game changer in
your life when I was a young
entrepreneur I liked to I think talk a
little bit too much about how many hours
that I worked how many emails I'd sent
and all of those kinds of things but I
didn't have a second thought on how
all of that work and that workaholism
was impacting my stress levels my
productivity my sleep My overall health
which is why I think the new stress
monitoring feature on my weep is so
important whoop is this small device on
my wrist that I wear during the podcast
it's a wearable health and fitness coach
and helps you to sleep better to train
harder live healthier and now manage
your stress one of the ways that it does
this is with scientifically backed
breathing exercises developed with
leading neuroscientist Dr Andrew
huberman if you're someone who's
struggling to manage and overcome stress
I'd highly recommend you check out woop
it's been a genuine game changer for me
go to join.woop.com CEO to get three
months week membership on me and let me
know how you get on
quick one as you guys know we're lucky
enough to have blue jeans by Verizon as
a sponsor of this podcast and for anyone
that doesn't know blue jeans is an
online video conferencing tool that
allows you to have slick fast high
quality online meetings without all the
glitches you might normally find with
online meeting tools and they have a new
feature called Blue Jeans basic blue
jeans basic is essentially a free
version of their top quality video
conferencing tool that means you get an
immersive video experience that is super
high quality super easy and super
basically zero fast apart from all the
incredible features like zero time
limits on meeting calls it also comes
with High Fidelity audio and video
including Dolby voice which is
incredibly useful they also have
Enterprise grade security so you can
collaborate with confidence it's so
smooth that it's quite literally
changing the game for myself and my team
without compromising on quality to find
out more all you have to do is search
bluejeans.com and let me know how you
get on during your time at Shopify what
has been your
most
difficult personal challenge like what
was the day or the period where you had
your hardest time
I think it was
um on a personal level it was probably
the pandemic I felt very very lonely
um I I just
I was low on energy I was high in
anxiety
and I wasn't making time it was like the
pandemic was crazy for Shopify overnight
every physical retailer shut down
and we were really lucky in that a lot
of them ended up coming online with
Shopify that was really cool but we
ended up hiring a ton of people very
very quickly we were always by ourselves
we were fully you know fully remote at
that point
and I I was not in a good place
um what'd you mean you went in a good
place
um I wasn't present at all for my I
don't think I was present for my team
and I don't think I was present at home
I felt like I was simply just trying to
tread water
and I wasn't making time I had this sort
of great I talked about my calendar
efficiency I had this great sort of plan
usually and then the pandemic hit and
like everything changed and scheduling
all this time I didn't replace the time
with mentors that I meet in person with
with virtual coffees I just canceled it
and so I just it was a very
um reactive period for me where I don't
think I was mindful of what I needed to
be a good leader and we were just hiring
a ton of people and
I was lonely I was really [__] lonely
that was a low point on a professional
side on a personal side
it actually happened a couple years
prior to that and it was really around
the transition from being sort of Co to
being president
um
I felt like I was letting down the
company I was letting down Toby I was
letting down myself if I if I didn't
have a particular role at the company
and that role came with a huge head
count like all these different teams
reported up to me
um from a headcount perspective there
were like six thousand people that
reported to me it was kind of a crazy
thing and and but I knew it wasn't the
right job for me but I did not have the
self-confidence nor do I nor did I have
the
um
enough introspection to say I'm in the
wrong job
and I was fortunate that other people
especially Toby kind of pulled me into
this new thing and said hey there's a
role here that is different than what
you're doing and if you can just get
over the fact that you're not going to
be you're not going to have 6 000 direct
reports but rather you're going to have
a couple hundred record ports or maybe
less than that even but you're going to
do more of the stuff you want which also
happens to be more valuable for Shopify
that we're gonna have a new phase we
have this thing in Shopify called tours
of Duty it's every three years and um a
tour of Duty is you know it's a new new
mandate new objective and for the most
part most my tours of Duty up until this
this most recent one
I was doing the same thing I was just
grabbing as much as I can trying like
Swiss army knife stuff
but I never kind of settled in to say
where do I actually want to do like like
what is my craft here
I always love storytelling but I was
never
I think I was too caught up
with ego and insecurity to admit this is
the [__] I want to do I don't want this
rest of my life I want to get so good at
this and it was really
with help with coaching and and the
people around me that I was like Hey
what if I actually just did this thing
what if I took this other role called
the president of Shopify and I just
focused on this one aspect versus all
the other things I was doing and turned
out not only is it okay but it's way
more valuable and and I think I'm a much
more valuable member of our team because
I've I've sharpened my point rather than
become a well-rounded Riverstone in
those dark moments and those hard times
did you did you speak to anybody as in
what I'm saying I mean speak to the
people that were next to you did you
speak to Toby did you tell your wife how
you were feeling my wife knew I wasn't
happy did you have a conversation
um
no I don't think I was able I don't
think at that particular moment I was
able to actually even see it
I was like look I've been here for a
long time
maybe this is it maybe I've hit I've hit
the my Max here right I mean I've been
here for a third of my life maybe this
is it maybe like I should just quit
while I'm ahead and what I didn't fully
appreciate is that
the thing that I really want to do is
also the thing that everyone else really
wants me to do it's also really the
thing that is most valuable to the
company at this particular
but that's not enough yeah
I'm not doing enough
am I contributing enough and what does
that mean about me and myself that's
right like I'm not I obviously I'm not
enough
I am the happiest I'm not just saying
that uh because Ron camera at this
particular moment I'm the happiest and
most fulfilled and I find the most
meaning in my work that I have in a very
very long time and it's because
I'm doing the thing I should be doing
which is this particular
skill this particular role that I have
is kind of built perfectly for me and I
need to be okay with the fact that I
don't have the largest head count and
most of them doesn't report to me and I
don't really care about that what I care
about is am I adding the most amount of
value and I might I might do I feel like
I'm growing do I feel like I'm actually
contributing both to the company but
also to my own developments and I think
that's
if you can find that if you have people
around you your partners your colleagues
your your
board whatever it is that
give you the permission to do that again
you can't just do what you want like you
know if I want to like if I just want to
be the chef at Shopify it's not really
going to add much value but if it turns
out
and and that that the van diagram will
wrap of what am I really good at what
does a company value for me
and what is something that is uniquely
in my skill set if wherever that Venn
diagram overlaps if you can do that
you win
what about in the pandemic when you're
struggling did you did you have a actual
conversation this I'm asking this
question because I'm so compelled by
like
when specifically with some men who are
often a little bit more hesitant to talk
I'm compelled by this idea of like when
we speak when we reach out to a friend a
wife a partner to say listen I'm
struggling here
and do we do it after do we do it during
when did you do it I I did it way too
late I waited way too long for that and
I wish I had and I think it would have
saved a lot of grief
um it would have I would have been
I don't think the pandemic was
especially great for anyone all of us
sort of dealt with it in our own in our
own way but I think that I I made it way
more difficult on myself because
I I was lonely and unhappy and maybe had
some sort of you know maybe there was I
talked about anxiety but maybe there's a
bit depression there as well however I
didn't talk to anyone about it because I
didn't feel like
I had the right to complain
I didn't feel like I had enough
yeah that I had enough permission to
complain like there were people that
were losing their jobs and they're
people that were dying they were sick
like I'm gonna complain about the fact
that like I'm a bit lonely and
in hindsight I should have done it
differently I should have said look I
recognize that I'm very fortunate very
blessed but I also recognize that I'm
also really lonely right now and I think
what that would have by by telling
people that by saying it out loud you
know there's that whole theory about
don't tell people your goals
I think it's ridiculous don't tell me
your goals I think you tell everybody
your goals because the cool part is if
you have people around you that are good
people they're gonna hold you
accountable and you may actually eat
your goals way faster more effectively
and it's fun to share in a celebration
and celebrate someone you know who
deeply wanted to do something who
actually ends up doing that thing
so it's funny because if you feel like
you can't share with people people your
goals it's really what you should do is
get new friends totally I mean like why
wouldn't you want to tell your friends
and the people around you you have
Ambitions well the common critique of
telling people your goals is that when
you tell someone your goal you as an
individual you get something from that
the critique of it is you don't deserve
anything by just saying something out
loud that I think it's complete [__]
I think if you want to do something and
you tell put it on social media in 12
months from now I'm gonna run a marathon
or ultra marathon in 10 months from now
I'm gonna have you know two million
dollars of sales in my online store in
10 months from now I'm gonna you know do
something really challenging difficult
especially in social media where people
love to rip into each other that may
hold you accountable so I did not do the
right thing at that particular time I
hesitated and it's because of some weird
bravado that like I'm strong I'm capable
and I'm fortunate and therefore I don't
deserve to be unhappy or depressed or
anxious and I actually think
my biggest lesson from all of that is
vulnerability
for the right people
to your point good friends good family
good colleagues good partners
it shows strength it does not show
weakness
and I was very weak and I didn't want to
show vulnerability I wrote in my diary
the other day that vulnerability is a
magnet not a repellent and I think in
our in our masculinity and our toxic
masculinity sometimes in our sense of
wanting to be what we think strong is
the sort of misrepresentation of
strength we see being vulnerable as a
repellent as in I will lose things
people will will leave me they'll think
I'm weird or weak whatever and then
every time I've ran the experiment of
vulnerability and when I say experiment
I mean because it feels a little risky
sometimes it's a magnet everything
almost always it's like the antidote for
loneliness in many respects and there's
another really important thing to say
because you um in that basement during
the pandemic your family were there in
the house and we often confuse this idea
of being alone with loneliness totally
and Simon cynics actually I've given
credit he came on the podcast the other
day and he said he talked about how
lonely he is right now
and the Brain goes you don't have any
friends he goes I have loads of friends
I have loads of people around me I have
a big team but I'm lonely there's an
important distinction to make
um which I'm sure you can
speak to me because I think where you
had your family had your wife but I was
like no Steve you're falling into the
Trap again he wasn't alone so I was not
alone but I was lonely and actually this
is where going back to your your point
earlier which is a great point about
entrepreneurship being a lonely activity
or a lonely sport
by having more people around you on the
journey with you even if they're on
their own Journeys but they're sort of
tangential to your journey
it's a little bit less lonely yeah and
if you do that across a couple different
areas of your life
like if you work out at a gym or you go
for runs in the morning
finding someone else to run with you is
one thing but finding someone else to
run with you who's sort of going through
the same like I want to run five
kilometers and it's tough for me right
now you do it with somebody else who
also wants to run five kilometers and
stuff for them too there's an immediate
connection there so
in one case you may be not like you're
not alone because you have someone
running with you but you're lonely
another case if you're on a similar
journey together and you have a shared
experience or you're sharing an
experience that takes away from the
loneliness how does that square with
shopify's approach to remote working
because I've this is a debate I've
pondered over and over and over again in
my head which is like there's no correct
answer here we all know that everyone's
got a different Mission every company's
got a different Mission but one of my
reasons against
um this total remote work scenario is
because I think there's been a decay in
Institute Community institutions in our
world so in the UK like all the pubs are
shutting down we don't have community
centers churches Etc work seems to be
one of those institutions that remains
that does bring us together although
that's a dangerous thing also right of
course yeah and it's also age and
demographic specific and there's a
little bit of privilege in there as well
because you know everyone's situation is
different this is something I'm evolving
on but when I'm like an 18 19 year old
just left University
when I'm 21 years old and I've just left
University
I want to be do I not want to be around
people
um to build connections to build skills
for synchronous work
will I not be more lonely doing remote
work potentially from my studio
apartment in the middle of the city
where I live in a cardboard box
um as I used to Once Upon a Time
how do you square all of that together
so the reason that we're not fully
remote is because of that exact reason
we had about I don't know 10 10 or 11
something like that offices around the
world
and we were full-time in the office
pre-pandemic
and now we sort of have this model which
we refer to as digital by Design which
means that office centricity is over
and the reason that's important for us
is that we've been building this company
out of Canada you know for almost two
decades now and so in every single job
offer we gave there was an asterisk that
said it's part of this offer there's a
condition you have to move to Canada
and so that immediately limited the type
of talent of the people that come to
Shopify and so there's a real advantage
to the fact that now you can work
anywhere you want so that's that's
that's really valuable for us
first time that you know our new CFO is
based in New York our new GC is based in
DC
um our chief operating officers is is
down south
that is great people can live wherever
they want however we didn't close the
offices we converted them from quote-un
offices to more of these we call burst
bursting locations where you can come in
for a burst which is just an on-site and
we actually not only like the idea of
people coming in we've forced people to
spend time with their teams in person at
least once a quarter
and what you see is the healthiest teams
um
may not have to meet as regularly
because there's enough of a trust
battery where the residue of the truss
battery can be you know can be
distributed but for teams that are just
forming it is really important for them
to be in person we really encourage that
so we're not really hybrid because it's
not three days in two days out or
anything like that it's it's just work
from anywhere you want with the
condition that you must spend time
together with your team in person at
least once a quarter in some cases once
every month every solution every ounce
has a downside for sure office
centricity has a downside of clear one
what's the downside in your view of that
work from wherever you want but once a
quarter uh it's that not it depends on
if your manager really likes the idea of
being in person you're probably gonna be
in person more often and if your manager
does not you may be less
um so we're trying to work around that
and create some guard rails there but I
don't think there's any perfect solution
um a lot of companies have going the
opposite way now you're hearing like
Snapchat and Twitter on Twitter yeah
they're all going they seem to be going
back to like 80 in the office Etc the
good news are the bad news I don't think
anyone's got this right yeah in the
companies that will get it right longer
term are going to be the ones that are
most introspective about this what's
working what's not be honest about it so
we know that being fully remote doesn't
work for us we need to be in person
sometimes we also realize that it's
really an amazing opportunity for
someone to come to Shopify who can have
an incredible role building great
product or doing something at the
company it's very valuable and live
anywhere they want
that is an amazing art like you know in
the early days of shop I moved to Ottawa
Canada for Shopify and that's that's a
that's a big thing for my family so the
fact that they can live anywhere I think
is really great but I don't think anyone
has really knocked it out of the park
just yet
um what I would also say is that
just back to the Simon cynic uh quote uh
or or philosophy
I think we all need like we may not go
to church as much anymore or youth
groups or you know organized Sports I
think we all need our own version of
that tribe and I think developing your
own community in your own tribe even if
you guys sit around and stare at screens
you're playing video games together I
think having these rituals
um I'm not religious I'm Jewish but I'm
not religious but every Friday night we
have a Sabbath dinner Shabbat dinner and
we say sort of the the very basic Jewish
prayers but this ritual that my kids
look forward to where they you know they
say shabbat shalom and my wife you know
makes this amazing like home-cooked
dinner
I mean no matter what happens I'm home
Friday nights even if I have to travel
I'll go home then I'll leave Saturday
morning because that is a ritual that I
think is important but I think we all
need rituals in our lives and I think
the cool part of rituals is like you can
create new ones all the time the key
though is consistency
and and the direction of travel at a
very macro level with all these things
that are happening in technology seems
to be
um one in which
where we're being
stripped of
community and in-person connection which
seems to humans aren't changing
technology is but our innate fundamental
maslovian or like psychological needs
aren't changing but the society we live
in I think is optimizing against our
um
against Natural connection living in you
know four white walls in the middle of a
big city alone swiping on Tinder
ordering your food using a piece of
glass screen all of these things seem to
be robbing us with that connection and I
reflect on this a lot I go the reason
why the diversity is successful and the
reason why a lot of the things we've
done have really worked well in terms of
like the content in the media is because
we without really being that intentional
about it to be honest have created a
sense of connection for people they will
hear your story about your own
insecurities or about the things you
struggled with and that'll make them
feel heard and understood and connected
in some way
um I love that I actually think that
that is one of the most this sort of
shared experience even if I don't know
you yeah is really impactful we may not
know each other we may have never met
before people that are watching
but if you if anything that I said
anything in my story resembles your own
or resonates with you
um hopefully all I can what you take
from this is that like there is a way to
get over some of these things some
things you don't get over you simply
manage it better
but there's no there's no one like I
have not met I've got a chance to meet
pretty much anyone I want just like you
do
nobody has it figured out nobody is 100
happy all the time no one has a great
relationship great career great health
great family we're like really no one
has that we're all but the best ones in
my view are the ones that are self-aware
of where what to work on and they have
tactics and tools and traits to sort of
move towards a better version of
themselves they grab their surfboard
when things come on the resiliency side
they're very honest about the like when
they're lonely they say I'm lonely hear
the changes I have to make but no one
has it all figured out and I think that
in itself is when I figured out when I
had to sort of epiphany that holy [__]
no one has their [__] together we're all
trying to figure it out in our own ways
it was freeing for me it's so true that
nobody's there it's like a party that
you're striving towards that actually
nobody's out you know everyone I mean
you know more people than I like the
people that sit in this chair that you
know are way more successful than I am
I've listened to a lot of your your
interviews we're all kind of working on
our own [__] yeah everyone is and the
ones that say that they're good
I don't know I think they're lying
on that point then so we've we made
these cards they're actually on sale on
Shopify we um we use Shopify to sell
these cards and it's very much I'm glad
you said I didn't want to say that
they're called The Diary of a SEO
conversation cards and um what we've
done is we've taken all of the questions
that all of our guests have left in the
famous Diary of a CEO all of the amazing
guests we've had on the show we've
always ask them to write a question that
helps people to to go a little bit
deeper and we've made them into these
cards on the front of the cards you'll
see
the question and the person who wrote
the question on the back you have a QR
code scanner you can see that the next
guest that had to answer it so we're
really letting the cat out of the bag
here cool I picked three cards for you
the idea is that people will buy these
and then play them at home with their
friends and connect because
vulnerability is the daughter connection
you just have to pick one sure
Gary Neville
tell me something you've never told
anyone before
I don't think I'm a great father
I want to be a great father but I don't
feel I'm a great father I feel like I
only have I have like 10 units of energy
and if I give you this energy somewhere
else then I don't give it to that and I
haven't figured out the right Dynamic
yet and I I worry that at some point
uh my kids will be too old they'll be
out of the house
and it'll be too late
and
um and I really want to be a great
father
so
that's kind of it's quite a vulnerable
but that's the truth
um yeah
mission of what great father looks like
is maybe not fitting the great father
that you are
um potentially uh you see what I mean by
that yeah I I do um because you're an
inspiration so I mean this goes back to
am I am I enough of enough of a father
am I enough right
um but the thing about
the the like being a great father is
there is a limited time component to it
I don't know how much like Bailey is six
in 12 years she's going to be off out of
the house somewhere I suspect I got 12
years to become a great father and
I don't know exactly the right path to
get there I I know what my weaknesses
are but they're a little bit elusive
it's it's am I present with them am I
mindful to their needs
um
but that's something that
that I I struggle with and I'd like to
be if I sort of think of a three or four
things elements in my life that I want
to be world class my work
um my relationship to Lindsay
my contribution to the world a charity
perspective that fourth bucket is is can
I be a really great dad and and I don't
also know how to gauge that a lot of the
other metrics I can gauge Lindsay was
very clear to say like you're a great
husband or like you weren't a great
husband this week
my work can be reflected by my
performance I don't think the stock
price is exactly directly you know I
don't think they're I think that's more
um correlation versus causation but the
other points in my life my contributions
to the community I can measure those
things I don't know if I can measure if
I'm a great father or not because of
that it makes the whole thing
really challenging
maybe like the other things we've spoken
about this great father party is a party
that nobody's at
potentially
um I've never met someone that says I am
a great father
yeah
you may be right um now maybe actually
the pursuit of
that is in itself what I'm trying to do
as is the case with the life right right
exactly
exactly right
um
but by the way even like okay go back to
vulnerability
millions of people are going to watch
this and maybe there is someone who's
watching that actually it's like hey I
actually think I am a great father and
here are the couple things that I use to
gauge that interesting how my you know
one of my uh a friend of mine who he's
not really my parent role model but
maybe he comes out at some point I asked
him what a great father or great parent
does and he says one thing
Independence are your children able to
be truly independent I thought that was
really interesting as sort of a metric
for gauging whether or not you've raised
you you you're a good parent
um another one says like you know
there's a famous quote which is you're
only as happy as your least happy child
um
I've actually heard the corporate
version that which is like your only
successful is your least successful
division of your company
which is also really interesting way to
kind of put that
um but I I that would sort of be the one
that that I don't think I've admitted
that because
um I haven't really had a venue to
actually say something like that before
we have a closing tradition on this
podcast where the last guest asks a
question for the next guest we'll see
that's what becomes these conversation
cards um the question that's been left
for you interesting one because it's a
bit left field but
what's a common misconception people
have about you
and more importantly how does it make
you feel
because I talk so much about
entrepreneurship
there is I've heard this now from a
number of people that um
I don't ever talk about
the failures that I've had from a
business perspective
and partially I don't do that because I
don't think it's they're they're
necessarily that valuable relative to
some of the successes we talk about
DJing and t-shirts and and Shopify there
are literally 20 other companies that
I've started that have been total
[__] failures
and I think the common misconception is
that the stuff that I've worked on have
all been
not huge success but generally
successful because I talk about them so
much and I
it makes me feel sometimes like
I'm not
more recently that I'm not being as
helpful or honest as I as I should be
because I just don't have
I don't have the space or the venue to
talk about the slipper company the poker
chip company the nurse uniform company
like those are all real companies that I
started when I was in college or
undergrad or when I was a teenager that
failed miserably
and the misconception is that I I think
that that everything that I've worked on
has turned out to be good or successful
when you look at yourself in the mirror
and that's I'm just saying that as a
metaphor and then you look at the
perception of you does that create a
certain dissonance or a feeling of like
I don't know people call it imposter
syndrome which is the time I don't love
but you know often when you become when
you reach high places because you're
involved in very successful Ventures and
Pursuits there's this kind of like
perception which might not match the
perception or the voice that Whispers in
your head when you're alone I have I
have that so here's another way to put
sort of the the failure thing um
I do a lot of TV and and
um
and I'll get feedback that you know that
was really great I saw you in the show
where I saw you do this interview or saw
you on on on Squawk Box
um and I'm like great yeah thanks you
know I appreciate the common stuff
um sometimes I want to tell them I don't
often tell them do you know that I put
in five hours of work memorizing those
data points I think sometimes I like to
pretend like it comes easy to me
it does not come easy to me I work
really really hard in my craft my
if you think I'm a good Storyteller you
don't think I'm good story like I put a
lot of time into preparing for my
conversation with you today a lot of
time I've watched all your interviews I
literally as I told you like I I didn't
finish my run until I listened to the
entire Seth Rogen interview
um
I don't think I do have I don't I do a
disservice I think to a lot of people
and I'm working on this already around
vulnerability of actually sharing
this is not easy for me I'm not
naturally I can naturally memorize I'm
not I don't have a photographic memory
what I do have is a really good work
ethic and I should be talking more about
that than actually showing my work more
than just the result of my work so when
I look in the mirror and I think to
myself where is the dissonance it's that
sometimes
less less recently but but certainly
often time previously in the past years
I've made it seem like this is easy for
me and it's not easy for me
and I was never the smartest kid in any
of my classes I never got
I probably made it seem like I was you
know smarter than I was in the classes
when I wanted to do on a class I just
outworked everybody else
and I think if if you should if anyone
out there wants to emulate anything that
I've done emulate my work ethic
and the journey not the destination
because it's been [__] hard and still
[__] hard and I I embrace it and I
enjoy it and I
I wouldn't trade for anything else in
the world
but
I've had tons of failures and I work
really hard to make sure that I fewer of
those over time but it doesn't come easy
to me
Holly thank you so much incredibly
enjoyable conversation I've learned so
much but I've
um it's funny though I've done this I've
done so many of these podcasts and I
still continue to learn from every
single individual and so many incredibly
unique and and um for me really defining
ways I wanted to close with just one
thing because I think I'm thinking
forward at the guest we've got coming up
and the guests we've had previously and
maybe you're the guest best place to
answer this this started as a very
business-centric Show Business Centric
podcast started as a me as a young
entrepreneur building a company et
cetera Etc
there's a huge part of my audience base
that are doing exactly that right now
like they're like maybe they've started
their Shopify store
um maybe it's day one they know what
they want to sell maybe they don't maybe
they're not quite there yet
but if there were a piece of advice you
could lend to someone who wants to go on
that journey of Entrepreneurship of all
the things we've discussed today
what would that closing remark be
remember
that the cost of failure right now is
the lowest it's ever been in the history
of the world and because you if you if
you can remember that it means that
there's absolutely no reason why you
shouldn't keep trying and if it doesn't
actually work try something else
I think this idea of cost of failure is
a fascinating one because it's never
going to be zero right because
ultimately like there is an opportunity
costing your time you could be doing
something else you could be watching TV
you could be playing video game you
could have a job
but knowing that you are interested in
entrepreneurship and at the same time in
modern day you also realize that the
cost of failure is as close to zero as
it's ever been means that if you have
any instinct to start a business in the
shower when you're driving when you're
on a walk randomly you have this like
this would be a cool idea try it when
you look across the millions of stores
on Shopify who've now sold more than
half a trillion dollars on Shopify
the vast majority of them
did not wake up and say I'm going to be
a great entrepreneur they tried
something it worked they scaled it they
tried something it didn't work they
tried something else that was one when
they scale when you look across the
stores on shop that have been successful
all of them didn't start out with this
this vision of building a billion dollar
company at some point and I think that
the fact that we can start a business
now for the price of a couple cups of
coffee and that business can grow to be
a large multinational multi-billion
dollar company if that's what you want
that did not happen and it certainly did
not happen in the time span that's
happening right now the companies now
there's there are companies on shop like
today
where they're doing a billion dollars or
more in sales that didn't exist six
years ago six years ago was a shower
idea and now they're a multi-billion
dollar company or if you don't care
about building a billion dollar company
they've changed their entire vertical
their entire the the their world
whatever that their whatever the world
they're in they've changed it entirely
and it'll never be the same again
and so what a time to be alive what a
time to be alive what a time to be
someone who actually has an idea and
wants to share that idea with the world
and if you're not sure about an idea
what you could sell how you could start
think about something you already do
there is a store on Shopify that sells
the most delicious matzo ball soup
is a is a Jewish chicken soup okay um
it's just matzo ball it's like a uh if
you go to Jewish deli you should
actually try this there's a store in
shopline this is matzo ball soups and
when you look at the story of how of how
it got there they were just making matzo
ball soup for their friends and family
and at some point they realize maybe I
can share this with the world
and they do and now they have a real
business doing the thing they already
were doing except now someone is paying
them for that
that is incredible and that's the time
we're living right now what a time to be
alive Harley thank you so much for your
time and your generosity it means the
world to me it's been an incredibly
important conversation great
conversation thank you for inviting me
[Music]
over the last couple of how long maybe
four months I've been changing my diet
shall I say many of you have really been
paying attention to this podcast will
know why I've sat here with some
incredible Health experts and one of the
things that's really come through for me
which has caused a big change in my life
is the need for us to have these
superfoods these green Foods these
vegetables and then a company I love so
much and the company I'm an investor in
and then a company that sponsors this
podcast and I'm on the board of recently
announced a new product which absolutely
spoke to exactly where I was in my life
and that is huel and they announced
Daily Greens Daily Greens is a product
that contains 91 superfoods nutrients
and plant-based ingredients which helps
me meet that dietary requirement with
the convenience that he will these
offers unfortunately it's only currently
available in the US but I hope
pray that it'll be with you guys in the
UK too so if you're in the US check it
out it's an incredible product I've been
having it here in La for the last couple
of weeks and it's a game changer
[Music]
oh